Let's recreate this model now using JAGS.
First, we'll need to
load the rjags library.
And we'll specify the hierarchical form
of the model, let's call this mod1.
There will be several different models.
So let's number this one and we're
going to start with the model string.
The syntax for this in JAGS is to
say model with curly braces and
fill in the different pieces.
Let's start with the likelihood for
i in 1:n the length of the data.
Observation y[i] will come from
a normal distribution dnorm.
Where the mean is mu[i],
we'll specify what that is in a moment.
And precision,
we'll call it P-R-E-C for now.
Now we need to add the linear
model part of this.
mu[i] is linear,
where we have coefficient 1 plus
coefficient 2 times the log income,
the ith value of the log income.
So, y[i] comes from this normal
distribution with mean mu[i], and
the mean comes from our
linear model of log_income.
We now need to give a prior for
these coefficients.
We'll start another loop for j in 1:2,
because they're two coefficients.
Beta j will come from
a normal distribution, dnorm
With let's say mean 0 and
a variance 1 million.
We'll make it pretty large so
that this prior is close to
the non-informative prior
model we fit earlier.
Remember, we have to enter it as
a precision for the normal distribution.
So this will be 1 divided by the variance
of 1.0 times 10 to the 6th power.
We'll use an inverse gamma distribution
on the variants of the normal
distribution for the observations.
An inverse gamma on the variance
implies a gamma prior
on the precision which is
the reciprocal of the variance.
So let's put the prior
directly on the precision.
Precision will come from
a gamma distribution.
And remember, it's very important
to check the JAGS documentation,
the JAGS manual,
under the chapter on distributions.
To remind ourselves how JAGS
parameterizes these distributions.
In this case, it is the same as with R.
The first parameter for
the gamma distribution is a shape.
And the second parameter is a rate.
Let's use the same trick we did before,
where we parameterized
the prior in terms of a prior
sample size and a prior guess.
We'll use a prior sample size of 5.
And recall we have to divide it by 2
to turn it into the gamma parameter.
And then we have to do
the prior sample size again
times our prior guess for the variance,
let's say it's 10, and
divide that also by 2.
A gamma prior on the precision
using this shape and
this rate parameter is equivalent.
To an inverse gamma prior on the variance
with this shape parameter and
this as the scale parameter.
Instead of precision we will probably
be interested in the variance,
which is equal to 1 over the precision.
Notice we didn't assign
a distribution here
because we gave a prior to the precision.
That implies a prior for
sigma squared, the inverse
gamma we've been talking about.
So instead of a distribution here,
we give it an equals.
This is a deterministic relationship
between the precision, and the variance.
Usually when we're modeling, the most
interpretable quantity is the standard
deviation instead of the variance.
So let's monitor the standard deviation,
which is just the square
root of the variance.
This completes the model
where this section tells us
the likelihood of the data.
This section gives us the priors for
the coefficients, and
down here we have the prior for the left
over, or the unaccounted for variants.
JAGS requires that we
put this in a string.
So I'll put these between quotation marks.
And now we need to set up the model.
First, let's set the random seed.
And we'll tell it what the data are.
So data for
model 1 that'll go into JAGS needs
to be a list where we named
our variable y in the model.
So we have to give it y down here.
y=dat, we're using our modified
dataset where we removed missing values,
dat$loginfant as our response variable.
n is the number of rows
in the dat dataset.
And, we also created a variable
here called log_income.
So we need to give it the exact
same name down here, log_income.
We'll get dat$logincome.
That's how we specified
it in the data set.
The parameters that we want to monitor for
model one are the two coefficients,
beta one and beta two.
And since they were specified and indexed
together as a vector I can just call it b.
We have our choice if we want
to monitor the precision,
the variance, or the standard
deviation from the likelihood.
Let's just look at the standard deviation.
We can give the model initial values,
inits1 and
this goes in as a function
that creates a list.
We'll give an initial value for
the beta coefficients.
There are two of them.
So, let's draw two random normals.
So drawing two random normals,
let's say, 0,
and variance or standard deviation, 100.
For initial value of the precision,
let's draw from a gamma distribution.
We only need one draw.
And let's just give it,
Shape 1 and rate 1.
That's actually
an exponential distribution.
So now that we've specified the data, told
it which parameters we want to monitor and
given initial values for
the different parameters.
We can specify the model itself,
jags.model where we create
a textConnection with mod1 string.
mod1_string that we just specified.
The data is data1_jags
that we just created,
data1_jags.
We'll use the initial values
from our function inits1.
And let's say we want to
run three different chains.
That's another option to write
into this jags.model function.
We want it to run three separate chains.
In each chain it'll initialize
the chain with these random draws.
So we'll have different
starting values for each chain.
We'll initialize the model
by running all of this code.
Initialization was essentially instant.
And now that the model is initialized,
let's give it a little bit of
a burn in period by updating
the model for, let's say,
1,000 iterations.
So it ran the model for 1,000 iterations
but it didn't keep the samples.
Once we have the burn in period run,
let's create our actual
posterior simulation that we're
going to keep for model inference.
Mod1_sim is what we'll name it.
It will come from coda.samples.
We're going to create
coda.samples from the model.
Model 1, where the variable names
are the parameters that we created.
And we'll run this for
let's say 5,000 iterations.
We'll run this line to run the model.
And since we ran three different chains,
sometimes it's useful to
combine them into one chain.
So we'll call that mod1_csim for
combined simulation.
And we're going to do this by
stacking the matrices that
contain the simulations themselves.
Inside mod1.sim the simulations
are stored as matrices.
To do this we need to use
the do.call function in R and rbind.
Remember we used cbind earlier to
combine matrices along the columns.
Now we're going to stack the matrices
vertically by combining them on
the rows using mod1_sim.
And run that line.